From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, but weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist and
Scott Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing. So
number one 53 recorded live
Wednesday, March 11th, 2009. Support for Hanselman
it's just provided by. Tellerik
already controls the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottelerikdotcomandby.net developers journal, the world's
leading developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, the tables
are turned and Scott is
interviewed by his wife. Hi
everyone. I'm dimension Keilani I'm
Scott's wife. And actually you
can call me Mo. So
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes and squats asked
me to step up because
he got a cancellation and
I jumped at the chance
because I'll be interviewing Scott
Hanselman, web developer. And I
get to do all the
asking this time. So Scott,
how's it going? It's too
soon to say yes. Okay.
All right. So I probably
am not the best person
to be asking you these
questions because I'm not an
engineer or a techie, but
I thought people kind of
interested in tech, but I
think people kind of want
to know about the, the,
the essence of the handsome
man. So I thought we
kind of dig deep into,
into what makes you tick.
Tell me a little bit
about yourself. Oh my goodness.
Is that the wreck? It's
just the direction that we
really want to take this
deer run with it. Tell
you about myself. Yeah, just
a little bit. You'll have
to lead the interview more
than that. How man? Sorry.
It's not going to be
that easy, Right? Okay. Well,
let's start at the beginning
then. I guess, what have
you been working on these
days? What's going on? Well,
I mean, I just really
sat nerd dinner thing. I
haven't had a chance to
show you yet, but you've
been listening to me. Talk
about it for how long,
how many nights did I
stay up late this time?
Does that bug you? When
I stay up late? See
how I turned that around.
Nice. This focus on you.
Okay. So let me try
to turn it around again
a little bit more. Really?
I am interested in what
you've been working on. I
know that you're going to
Vegas now. Yeah, we got
mixed, mixed next week. Do
you look forward to those
kinds of things? It's kind
of a love, hate relationship
because I don't like being
away from you and the
kids, but I mean, Vegas
is Vegas, right? I mean,
Vegas is just this horrific
hell hole of a, of
a town, not Vegas, like
the incorporated town of Vegas,
but like the strip, I
just hate it. I just,
there's just nothing to do
there. So I like meeting
all the people though. I
mean, that's, it's nice to
meet people. So I assume
to totally random people, like
some of the most fun
I've had at conferences, I've
told you about this before
would be like, like one
time I was in an
elevator in Vegas and I
was by myself and these
like Norwegian guys were in
the elevator and they're like,
Hey, it's got Hanselman. I
can't do a Norwegian accent.
So I'll just make them
surfer dudes. It's got handsome,
man. Hey, do you doing
anything right now? Let's let's
go have dinner or you
look alone. I'm like, Oh,
that was so nice. You
know, it's just like, Oh
man, that's so thoughtful. I
wish everybody could do that.
You know, just because you
recognize one person, that's cool
to ask them to dinner.
But at the same time,
random people should ask each
other to dinner at, at
technical events. Cause nobody wants
to be away from home.
So yeah. Hence the nerd
dinner, I guess I kind
of brought that around. Didn't
even realize I was doing
it. I didn't know I
was completed. That's right. That's
right. So, and when people
do that, when, when you're,
I was going to say,
I cost it, but that's
really not the essence behind
it. When you approach that
way and people are so
sort of Reverend about meeting
the Scott Hanson, what goes through
your mind? I mean, do
you get that? You're this
big deal out there. I'm
not a big deal. I'm
only a big deal to
you because I forward you.
The emails that people send
me. Oh, I saw your
talk. It was cool. You
have no idea, but any
of this stuff, right? You
don't care. I mean, I'm
not even as quote unquote
famous as like a local
news anchor. You know what
I mean? If you see
the weather check at Safeway,
you're like, Aw dude, it's
the lady from channel two.
I am not at that
level yet. There are probably
a few thousand people in
the world that give a
crap about what I do
that said it's kind of
like being a really like
a, like a lifetime television
character actor, like, Oh, it's
that dude with a familiar
face. But Phil hacks said
something really interesting on his
blog today where he said,
authorship does not equal authority.
Everyone can write a book,
right? Anybody can write a
book, you right. Anybody can
write a book. Writing a
book means that you are
loud. Not that you are
an authority and Jeff Atwood
who I think you've either
met or I've mentioned him
enough that you might as
well have met him. And
he talks to J J
money yet you and Jay
money are really tight. I'm
sure you've never met him.
Have you talks about the
idea that we're all amateurs,
right? I mean, Jeff is
loud and I am cloudish.
That doesn't mean that I'm
a good programmer. So do
you struggle with that though?
I mean, if you're, if
you're loud, obviously people listening
to you, do you struggle
with trying to sort of
not bring out your own
opinion, but you know, speaking
for the many minions out
there who are not as
loud as you are at
the moment, The minions, the
Hansel minions, the many, I
mean, I'm just a guy
who started a blog six
years ago. You remember when
I started it and I
just did it so I
could Google myself later. I
wasn't trying to do anything
impressive with it. I just
wanted to be able to
search for code later on.
So I'm not really sure
why anyone applied. I'm not,
I'm, I'm skirting the issue
here. Clearly. I'm famous in
a tiny, tiny group of
people. And sometimes when you
put enough of them in
a town, it's like, I'm
famous for a little bit.
Like, like, like Bruce Campbell, the
actor, which you said once,
who, so now you watch
burn notice. So you think
this campus is awesome, but
you know what I'm saying?
You don't know who post
Campbell is. You would see
him at Safeway and you
go, is that that guy
for burn notice? That's not
famous. That's not like Tom
cruise famous. Like I'm looking
at Twitter here. I'm like
Aston Kutcher is on Twitter.
Right? Okay. So like I've
got 8,000 people that follow
me on Twitter and you're
like, yeah, that's creepy. Stop
tweeting about the kid's poop
asking. Cause your has 150,000
or 220,000 people following him.
If there's like this famous.
And then there's like another
word that's not even in
the same, in the same
sport. So I'm in the
same ballpark. So what do
I think about this is
what it is. I don't
think about it really that
humble or are you just
sounding humble? No, it's about
being humble. It's about your
mean man? What kind of
questions are these? Are you
faking it or something? Taking
humility? No. Most people who
have any amount of fame
at all are probably have
a great deal of self-loathing.
And I probably have that
too. Everyone's got that. What
have they done for me
lately thing? Ultimately, I am
a teacher. Like I was
at my, my buddy, Greg
Jackson called me and said,
come down to Portland, community
college and give a talk.
Right. I went out, this
was last night. So I
went over and I talked
to his 202 level asp.net
class. And they're using the
book that me and bill
Evian and Devin Raider wrote
mostly bill. And they're using
that as their text. And
like the first thing out
of the mouse was like,
wow, you're not as fat
as you were on your
book. Yeah. Thanks. It got
the point. You're not, you're
much younger in person. And
I talked to these guys
for like two hours, three
hours and I was there
until like 10, right? I
mean they stayed way late
at a community college and
Oh man, I forgot how
good I was at that.
And I don't, I'm not
saying good at speaking, what
am I good at teaching?
So all this Microsoft shell,
Twitter blog, blah, blah, blah.
It's all BS. I'm a
teacher and teachers don't necessarily
know what they're talking about,
which is another important thing
to note about teachers. And
I've told you this before,
there's a mystery amount of
hubris involved in being a
teacher because you, you think
you might possibly have a
better idea than the students,
but you're you still, maybe
just a chapter or two
ahead. Right. And you're not
really awesome until you've taught
the class a couple of
times, This is hard. You
know, I listened to NPR
and Neil Conan and all
those guys and they're jumping
in every 30 seconds. You've
been going on for like
minutes. So Tonight now the
next question, dear should be,
why do you talk so
much? That's right. And how
does one shut you up?
Really? No, I'm pretty interested
in that because you're talking
about teaching and connect that
to ego. I mean, we've
talked about this a little.
Well, what feeds, what feeds
you? I mean, my dad
always says like, what feeds
your spirit? Right? And he
always said, growing up, if
you and people can go
listen to the podcast where
I interviewed my dad, he
always says like, you know,
if you want to dig
ditches, if that feeds your
spirit, do it right. You
know, my, my little brother
always wanted to be a,
a fire man. So he's
a fireman and that's what
feeds his spirit. That's what
he likes to do. I
just really like to run
down the hall with an
open laptop going dude, check
this out. So everything that
I do, whether it be
hanging out at a local
community college, talking to 20
kids for three hours on
a Tuesday night or talking
to you about what I
worked on that day or
speaking at a conference in
front of a thousand people,
it's all the equivalent of
running down the hall with
a laptop, going to check
this out. I laugh. I
have visions of like, you
know, Lillian, you know, other
nieces and nephews who are
like uncle Scott. I have
a quick question. And then,
you know, they get this
long, 20 minute answer to
their quick question. What you're
referring to is when, when,
when one of our nieces
came over from, I think
they were coming from Tanzania
and they said something very
innocuous, like, why is it
this time here? And it's
like, you know, two in
the morning and Tanzania. And
I was like, well, here,
hold this here. Okay. You're
the sun right here. Use
the orange, says this side.
Right? Use the orange, just
the sun. I'll be the
moon. Okay. Quick turn this
23 degrees. Okay. So the
earth is tilted like this.
All right. Now, move this
here. I'll hold the sun.
So then suddenly the question
about what the temper, you
know, it became a lesson
on the solar system and
like they groaned, how could
they not find that? Awesome.
How could these people not
want to listen to science
Friday? You know what I'm
saying? That's a teacher, you
know, like talk, talk about,
here you go, dear. You
know how Zensa will say,
like, why is the sky
blue or whatever? And he's
like, our son he's three.
Right? Well here's how light
refresh. Okay. Let's go. Let's
go to the science museums.
And so on. Let's talk
about a prism. Here's the,
here's the visible spectrum of
light. That's right. Because I,
in my infinite wisdom, when
I'm asked, why is the
sun blue? You know, I
have the sky blue rather
I have the time I'm
thinking, you know, I've got
to, you know, change the
baby. You've got to do
this, then that we've got
to move on. So, you
know, my answer and it's
wisdom is because it's not
red or something like that.
And you, I mean, you're
going to really, you know,
give it the respect that
it deserves and sit there
and then dig into this.
I think it says a
lot about the kind of
person that you are and
your desire to share this
knowledge. But moving on just
a little bit, Tom, talk
real briefly about your path.
I know you've talked about
this with your dad about
how you, how you to
this point. But I want
to go back to my
initial question. What is it
that makes you tick? I
mean, what is the nature?
So passionate about this stuff
that you do? Why don't
you get tired of it?
You've gone to programming programming.
I mean, web development, you
know, dot net, this whole
thing. How do you, how
do you keep it fresh
frosty? How did you just
stay frosty? I taught you
that stay frosty and you're
staying frosty and I never
even saw the movie. You
never finished the movie. And
I love that you can
watch Terminator the TV show
without having ever watched or
wanting to watch even a
single Terminator. Guess back to
the issue at hand. Yes.
From time to say, we
know that was not an
appropriate time for woot. What
was the question? What drives
me? I don't know. I
mean, it's empowerment. Like why
do I try to keep
a running tally of the
groceries and my head and
see if I can come
up with it total within
a dollar faster than the
check at the checkout thing,
because it's cool. It's interesting.
I was gonna say, it's
cool. It's not cool. I
wasn't cool in high school.
Nobody wanted to be my
friend. No, but I mean,
how, how can you not
right. One of the examples
that I gave to, to
the guys at the, the
kids, the kids, the 30
to 40 year old men
and women that I met
at the local community college
yesterday was, you know, if
you took apart your, your,
your toaster oven, if you
took apart your, your clock
radio, if you put it
back together again, you know,
these are all the signs
of wanting to be a,
a computer minded person, not
even a computer minded person,
but, and an engineer, you
know, wondering why it works.
Like I give the example
of teaching your sister, how
to drive a car, her
concept of the relationship between
the steering wheel and the
wheels. When I was teaching
her to parallel park, was
that the steering wheel disappears
into the dashboard. You know,
there's like this there's this
like steering shaft that goes
into the desk, turns into
magic, right? And then the
wheels turn, which is probably
your perception of how the
one, which is probably your
perception. You know what I'm
saying, though? It goes, as
you know, it's attached to
the dashboard, but then there's
a cloud of Magic happens
under the hood. Exactly. If
your mind goes farther into
the dashboard and you want
to rip the dashboard open
and find out what's going
on, then you may be
a computer person. It's not
a qualitative judgment about being
a good person or bad
person. I'm not the curiosity
for this thing. You know?
I mean, you have an
MBA. I don't, I could
really care less about that
kind of thing. But, but
after what, 15 years, 16
years, what time is it?
This is your, this is
your 17, so 17 years
into it. I mean, how,
how do you still stay
as passionate about it as
you are? I mean, you're
not, I've met teachers who
initially, when they believed, you
know, when they started teaching
and were gung ho and
the system kind of beats
it out of them slowly,
how, how have you stayed
as passionate as you are?
And as, as committed to
being on top of, you
know, anything that comes out,
I mean, I caught this
thing on NPR today, where
they were talking about Twitter,
they were interviewing the two
guys, the Bevins, and they
were talking about, you know,
but I remembered you like
two years ago saying, I'm
going to tweet, you're talking
about your blood sugar. And
I remember, You know, I
diabetes for a day 24
hours. I thought it was
weird then. Yeah. And of
course it's a little weird
now, but still, you know,
how do you stay? So,
so like, you clearly enjoy
it. You enjoy what you
do. There's two different things
that you've brought up there
though. One is keeping up
on technology, which might mean
getting a new cell phone
or making sure you have
the best DVD player. Like,
you know, like we don't
have a blue Ray player.
We will soon, but, but
you know, we're up on
technology in some sense, but,
and then there's keeping up
on pop culture and technology,
what they call memes, you
know, like Twitter is a
fad, but compared to Facebook,
Twitter, can't even be seen
like there's like 8 million people
on Twitter. And I think
the only reason that it's
fun to, to talk about
Twitter is because it's fun
to say the word tweet.
That's like, that's my theory
about why people think Twitter
is cool. Cause it's fun
to say tweet and Twitter,
there are 175 million people on
Facebook. Okay. Like put that
into perspective, right? Twitter could
grow the way it is
growing for the next 200
years. And it would never
catch Facebook. Ever. Facebook is
mainstream. Twitter is a niche.
So I'm trying to make
the differentiation that there's being
up on stuff like, you
know, having a new computer
or the newest computer or
the newest iPod or whatever.
And then there's being up
on all the internet memes.
They're kind of two different.
They feed two different things.
Twitter feeds and an addiction
to being connected and an
addiction to being an urgency
addiction. Right. Right. The Stephen
Covey quadrants about urgent important,
important, neither urgent nor important.
Twitter is nice because it
is neither urgent or important
for the most of the
time. And then suddenly something
really important and urgent happens
like a plane hits the
Hudson and then Twitter finds
out first. But for the
most part, Twitter is very
low on the urgency stuff.
So that's one thing. So
Twitter and memes and all
that kind of crap and
funny videos on YouTube are
neither urgent or important, right?
But computers getting faster and
more memory. And the move
from 32 bit to 64
bit processors and going from
unmanaged code to manage code.
Those things are both urgent
and important. Those things are
interesting. That feeds a whole
different part of me. So
there's keeping up on memes.
I have less patience for,
I don't really care what
the new hot hip thing
is. I'm never going to
be like Robert Scoble, you
know, Robert Scoble, you have
no idea. Who's Robert scope.
I refuse to, You know,
really, I mean, we don't
have enough time in this
interview for me to dig
away. This is about you.
Right? Okay. That you're dodging
this question. Just hold the
microphone there. The, the way
you're dodging. That is lovely.
You've heard Robert COVID. So
Robert Scoble is like the
quintessential UpToDate super connected meme
person. Right. I would like
to be like, you know,
I want to be more
focused on, on the, the
technology on the, the programming
and the computer side of
thing and not on the
social graph part of things.
I don't really care to
be connected to that many
people. I mean, the people
that I don't know from
high school that are trying
to get to know me
from Facebook, I don't re
I don't hang out with
them for a reason. You
hear that people out there
that you can reconnect with
people. Well, from high school,
it's like why, if I
wanted to reconnect with them,
we wouldn't have lost touch.
Fair enough. I hang out
with the people I want
to from high school. Hey,
okay. Fair enough. Right. They
were at our wedding. But,
but, but, but, but again,
I mean, though, I, I
think I, you answering the
fluffier side of the question,
how is it that you're
kept this, this, this attraction
with what it is that
you do so many people
search for so long? I
mean, I know of many
people who are in their
forties and fifties, I haven't
found that this one thing
that really motivates them Because
it is empowering because I
am yeah. Just to power
free. Cause this is the
third time you mentioned it,
Power in the greed and
power and money sense of
the word, but empowered in
the way that teenagers today
are not empowered. Like say
more please. Oh yes. They're
empowered. Like I have no
tolerance for like a 13
year olds. Like, Hey, it's
summertime. Yeah. I guess I'll
hang out with my friends.
You know, I really, can't
not much I can do.
I'm only 13 and I'm
only 14 or whatever. You
know, man, when I was
14, I got a job.
I got a, I got
a job permit and I
went and I folded shirts
at Nordstrom's. You know, when
I wanted to get a
car, my dad said, you
know, good, get a car.
I wish you all the
best, good luck with that
son. And, and I went
and I bought it for
$300 and I paid in
payments. Now this is like,
the, this is, this is
the part of my personality,
which is like, get off
my lawn, damn kids, you
know, be empowered, get out
there and do it. And
what's great about programming is
that you can think something
and then make you see
what I'm saying. Like, have
you ever looked at an
Excel spreadsheet? You do stuff
in Excel. Cause you're like
a business person. And then
you, you, you look at
those numbers and then you
can envision the crazy pivot
table. It hasn't been done
yet. And you say, I
can do this. Okay. Imagine
that feeling times of thousand,
that's what programming is like.
And that that's what You
feel every day. I mean,
maybe not necessarily every day,
but that's, what's allowed you
to keep it Staying with
this keeps you from feeling
helpless. I mean, I can't,
it's so sad to look
at someone's. This is horrible.
You ever get a resume
from somebody for some technical
job and then you turn
like the paragraph marks thing
on and suddenly instead of
seeing like nice tab stops
and stuff, you just see
dot, dot, dot, dot, dot,
boom, sorry, delete, thrown away.
I mean, I don't really
mean that, but I kind
of mean that it's like,
if you, if you couldn't
master word and the basics
of the tab stop, I'm
I really going to hire
you because of, you know,
cause I don't want to
see a whole colorful array
of tabs and spaces and
chaos. And you know, I
know when this line is
11 point and that lines
12 point that shows attention
to detail and empowerment. So
the point I'm making is
that to, to master a
piece of software, even a
comparatively simple one, like word
or PowerPoint is the first
step. And this is the
feeling that you had when
you learned word. Right? And
when you, when I moved
you onto like Gmail and
you hated it, and then
you got it and then
suddenly you're tagging and star
and then search. And you're
like, Oh yeah, there's the
movement from, from non-computer person
to computer person to power
user, to programmer to really
good programmer each level. Each
time you level up. Oh,
that's so sad. Oh, Cause
I'm putting this in gaming
parlance. Each time you level
up like that, as you
reached level 70, you're getting
more of a sense of,
well, I can do this.
I can make things happen.
Someone can send me a
text file and I can
sort it and split it
and make everything uppercase and
send it back. Boom. It's
magic, man. How can you
not care about this stuff?
I know you do Gripped.
I mean, I am right
there with you. Do you
know how to make the
possible out of the impossible?
Well, the dotnet ninjas at
Telerik do they just released
a huge pack of web
controls, all built on top
of ESPN at Ajax, that'll
help you build impossibly fast
and interactive applications in no
time at all. They've made
the impossible possible in desktop
development. If you think you
can't have a carousel component
and wind forms, well you
can. They're windows forms. Suite
features a super powerful grid
view control on 32 other
crazy desktop components that will
give you a dazzling WPF
like features, but in wind
forms, they do the same
thing in reporting solutions with
a new design surface, like
nothing else looks just like
graph paper. Cause you advanced
page layout capabilities makes it
feel more like a graphic
design software than a reporting
solution. Go check them out@telerikdotcomandbeat.net
Ninja. Thanks for listening. So
how do you manage to
fit all of this? And
this is a legitimate question
that many people have asked
me, how does this man
do it? You know, maybe
people ask you this. Yes.
All seven of them. I
mean, what do you give
up to, to have kind
of drive that you've got
or the kind of a
mission that you've got? The
vision that you've got? I
mean, I, and I don't
tell people that it's because
you know, in the middle
of the night at 3:00 AM.
Yeah. I'm up sobbing and
that's how he copes compile.
I mean, I don't think
you're making me, you're talking
to me up here. Love
ha ha. I mean like
how do I fit it
all in a day? Well,
how do you think I
fit it all in a
day? Right? When did I
come to bed last night?
This is about you and
yeah, But you're not disinterested.
Neil Conan from NPR who
doesn't know the interviewer, you're
the wife. I'm not interviewing
as a life. I'm just,
I need you to interview
as the wife because I
can get her all sorts
of random interviews. Can we
start over? No. What time
did I come to bed
last night for, was it
four it's four 34. Is
that a good idea? That's
what we ask our three
year olds, right? No, that
is not a good idea,
but that was a sacrifice.
Now I don't, COVID 4:00 AM
4:30 AM every night, but, but
you've been very supportive in
the sense of, I can,
I can look you in
the eye and say, this
is important. Or you know,
this really isn't important. You
know, there's some stuff I
wanted to get done before
mics. And the day after
mix is over, we're going
on vacation. So it's about
balance. So there may be
days or even a week
or two where I might
work crazy crazy hours, but
you've got to temper that
with like, you know, we
went to Africa for a
month. We actually borrowed vacation
into the next year. We've
borrowed more vacation than I
actually have. So it's like
play hard, work hard, I
guess that you think that
we do that. I think
so. I mean, it's always
a balance. It's always a
struggle, but how do you
think it impacts your family?
Well, that's one of the
things like you could play
with the, with the boys
for 10 hours a day
and then, you know, like
10 solid hours play with
them. And then on the
11th hour say I'm going
to go and do something
else right now. And they
would make you feel like
you did not spend enough
time with them, you know?
Right. So, I mean, what
do we do? We get
up about what's an average
day here. We get up
about eight, eight. We get
the boys ready for school,
take them to school. Then
I like a nomad run
from free wireless to free
wireless from Panera to Mose,
to Chipotle and back sometimes
work at the house and
I'll work until maybe, I
don't know, five or six
sometimes earlier, sometimes later kind
of depends on what's going
on at the time we
eat, we play with the
boys from, so we're pretty
much from the I'm from
I'm with the boys from
like five to eight, five
to nine. I try to
squeeze as much of that
as I can and put
him to bed. And then
depending on whether or not
we watch TV or we
hang out or read books
or do the taxes or
getting together to go to
bed at like, I don't
know, one or two get
up at eight. You know,
we get to, we spent
three, four hours. I spent
three or four hours with
the boys. It's been forced
four to six hours with
plus on a, you know,
an eight, 10 hour day.
We get a lot of
there's a lot in a
day. There's a lot of
time when you go to
bed at 2:00 AM is a
lot in your time. And
then on the weekends, you
know, I get to hang
out with the boys all
weekend long, which is cool
when I'm not traveling, which
I don't travel too much.
And on those times when
I get a sense that
I'm maybe stealing an hour
here or stealing an hour
there, I try to give
that hour back. Wouldn't you
agree with that? Why are
you smiling? Why are you
teasing me, man, Conscientious about
giving back what you've taken.
And I think that's, that's
very awesome. So what, what
is your, what inspires you?
What's your source of inspiration
As you try to cram
so many things into one
thing, Source of inspiration. I
mean all of this work,
there's the work of the
creation, creating stuff, but the
older I am making something,
making something out of nothing.
Yeah. That's cool. Making lots
as much stuff as I
can, but I'm getting, you
know, not working anymore. Right.
As in retirement. Oh yeah.
Hell yeah. I mean, that's
what I want to do,
right? That was our plan.
Right? You are my still
my wife flash interviewer. That
is the plan right there.
Oh, we'll just stop doing
this as soon as possible.
Let me take a memo
here. Okay. That's the plan,
right? It's to be done
as soon as possible. And
the cool thing about the
plan is we may not
necessarily stop doing any of
this stuff, but at least
then I wouldn't have to
go to work. You know
what I'm saying? But I
think I probably go teach
high school. That would be
my retirement tired ties To,
to what you're talking about
before that I worked for
Microsoft because it lets me
work from home and it
lets me be a teacher.
That's pretty awesome. I'm not
a, not a professional fan
boy. Although I think some
people might think I am.
What is my job here?
What do you think my
job is again? Nice job.
No, I mean is in
my opinion and really Will
have emailed me personally. And
this is my podcast. What
do you think my job
is? This is my podcast.
Cause I'm the one interviewing
you and I'm going to
own it and focus on
that. Why don't we be
a team? How's that? What
do you think? I think
you are an educator. I
mean, I think your job
really does involve a lot
of teaching and reaching out
to people and that type
of thing, community building, et
cetera, et cetera. It's just
Community building. What is that?
Or I mean, but, but
you, you talk, you, you
network with a lot of
people, whether they're students, whether
they're, you know, business leaders,
I mean, you do a
lot of outreach when I
would call a region and
yet you're shaking hands, not
so much in the literal,
But is that a job?
I mean, everyone teased our
president for being a community
organizer. Is that what I
am doing? Want me to
jump? It's the way of
being, I think even if
you weren't working for necessarily
Microsoft It's, it's who you
are, you know? So that's,
that's that? What was it
that Mandela said talking about
prison is a state of
type of thing. It's it's,
it's just, this is who
Scott Hanselman needs, right? This
is what you do, regardless
of whatever, whether they're getting
paid or not Labeled title,
you want payment, no payment.
That's a good answer. You,
I didn't think you could
pull that off. How would
you answer? No, I couldn't.
I couldn't have answered it
better. I mean, ultimately I'm
just testing you. It's the
back and forth. That makes
us a good team. Yeah.
I mean, that's, that's, that's
the deal it's about, I
mean, I'm excited about stuff
I'm usually, I mean, I'm
often excited about Microsoft stuff
and sometimes not. I took
a lot of who Boone
to discs with us to
South Africa, but yeah. And when
I'm not excited anymore, then
I probably go work somewhere
else. What'd you think? Cause
that would be sad to
be not excited. Yeah. I
think it's wonderful that you
have that philosophy. I find
it really great. Okay. Let
me see. I did try
to jot down a couple
of questions and you've dodged
all of them. None of
them have been answered, but
how much time do we
have? Probably a couple more
minutes. We can go as
long as you want here.
Oh wow. I'm just, I'm
just now getting, you know,
There's like five people listening
here at this point. I
started with a seven and
I've lost two in the
process, you know, I'm just
saying, okay, what's next for,
for the handsome man? The
Hanselman. Yeah. Cause you call
me the handsome man around
that. Right. What's next? I
don't know what to tell
you. I'm going to keep
you on this until it's
boring and then I'll do
something else. Well, I'll tell
you before I quit And
nice non-answer so, No, I
mean, this was the thing
that like I had my
mid year review, like what
was it like last week?
And I told my boss,
I was like, yeah, this
is pretty cool. Because the
Microsoft people, they always want
you to grow up and
like become a manager and
then a manager of managers.
And then, you know, God
amongst men and I've been
enjoying what I'm doing. Where
do you see yourself in
five years? I have no
plan that far in five
years. Everything I do in,
in terms of how many
years from now is in
context of the kids, right?
In five years, I see
us taking the older boy
to what third grade. Wow.
That's what I think about
what I'm doing as a
job in five years. It
doesn't really matter to me.
I was already a chief
architect and a very nice
publicly traded company. And I've,
I've made my, I've done
my job. I've made my
production at my proof. Maybe
I'll be the startup. I
don't know. As long as
I have good healthcare, it
doesn't really matter. As long
as I can get insulin
and a and T one
or some fiber optic, then
it doesn't really matter what
I'm doing. Right. And what
was the first thing that
we did when we built
this house? Talk to me.
What was the first thing
we did? When we built
this house? I was on
the ground and kicked out.
He goes, it's not a
mistake. No, nothing. No, we
are. We put in internet.
Absolutely. We, we pulled cable.
That's what we did. You
remember that? I do remember
that indeed. And it was
worth it. It was absolutely
worth it. Okay. Anything that
you think of your should
know about you partying? My
viewers and your listeners, parting
thoughts? I don't know. They
like to listen to you
talk about stuff. I think
I've taken over this interview
and talked about me and
we didn't get a chance
to talk to you about
you. It wasn't about me.
It was, it was about
you and about the Scott
Hanselman that people don't know.
But in all seriousness, people
are interested in hearing about,
about you and your perspective.
I mean, when we, we
met, we've been together. What
is this now? How many
years has this been? Eight
years, nine years, 10 years.
Eight years. Nine years. Well,
it feels like 12. No,
we've been married a long
time coming up on 10
years here. And when, when
did you think that I
was louder than the average
programmer? Well, And I didn't
know a whole lot of
programs to begin with. So
I've always rather thought that
you were loud. Yes. And
opinionated, And very, very eager
to share that opinion with
anybody who'd listened. So from
the beginning, really, it's not
the definition of pompous. Well,
you know your word, not
mine. No, it's a, it's
a fine dance that you,
you, you dance. There's, it's
a fine line too, that
you walk between saying, this
is what I think. And
I make no apology for
having that opinion without wanting
to offend and without wanting
to put down at the
people that disagree. So it's,
it's, it's always, It's been
a very interesting thing to
observe for me and to
see how you deal with
people that, whether it's on
your blog, but want to
say, you know, Scott, this
is stupid or Scott, you
know, the sex. I think
I've only seen you delete
comment, not related really to,
it's not germane to anything
we're talking about, but going
to a blog for a
second, I think I've only
seen you delete one comment.
One time where the guy
was really offensive. I can't
remember if it was racist
or something, but it was
something that was yeah. But
otherwise everything else that says,
you know, you're an idiot,
you're not smart guy. Why
do you bother please stop
logging? You know, all those
comments. I mean, And he's
got an opinion. It doesn't
mean it doesn't hurt. Right?
I mean, somebody tweeted something
about that. I was a
pompous asshole or something. So
I retweeted it last, you
know? So it's like, I
mean, it's a valid opinion,
right? I don't want to
be a pompous asshole. So
if somebody gives me feedback
like that, I'm like, okay,
I should probably think about
that. He might be right.
Who am I to, you
know, not to mention Jeff
Atwood twice in a talk,
but he has this thing.
He quoted, he quotes people.
So I don't know if
it's him or if it's
somebody quoted, but he said
something strong opinions, weakly held
nice. That's freaking awesome. You
know what I'm saying? Cause
this is the thing that
you hate about me. Cause
you and I will have
a fight. Right. And when
I say fight, I mean,
lowercase F not capital left.
And our fights are like,
pretty much like this I'm
going to reenact one of
our fights. Right? Oh goodness.
Well, here's like an example.
Here's an example of a
fight we had that we
thought the interest rate on
something was, I thought it
was 0% and you thought
it was 1%. Right? Right.
And it was like, no,
it's 1%. Oh, it's 0%.
Oh, it's 1%. It's very
sophisticated. The fighting. And then,
and I'll be just fighting,
fighting, fighting. I'm like, no,
no, no. It's 1%. It's
1%. You're wrong. You're, you're
so full of crap. And
I'll just really pump it
up strong opinion. And then
you'll bring out the piece
of paper and you'll prove
that I was wrong. And
then I'll go, Oh yeah,
I guess you were right.
And you move on casually,
walk away. Meanwhile, I'm thinking,
wait a minute, complete arguing
for four hours. It was
a strong opinion, but it
was weakly held. I mean,
so I will fight right
up into the point where
it's obvious that I'm wrong
and I'll be like, Oh
wow. Okay. And I am
totally cool for that person
to have the, the win
for the win. Good job.
More power to you. It
was a reason to fight
and be mean about it.
And there's no ego involved.
You know, that is the
stupidest idea I've ever, Oh,
I guess you are. Right.
Okay. Let me, but then
we're back to ego. I
mean, I don't know if
I'd agree that there's no
ego involved. I mean, everyone
has it. At some point
I have an ego is
to be able to take
criticism and be okay with
it. But more importantly to
have an ego is to
be able to be a
healthy ego, as opposed to
just an ego. There's a
difference between having any go
in having a healthy one,
just to be able to
say, Oh, I am wrong.
I have to down the
first guy to say, I'm
wrong. It's just, it's so
much easier to fall on
your sword than to try
to lift up the sword
and carry a heavy sword
all the time. It It's
fall right on top of
it. The Japanese model is
served as well in the
past as well. That is
the, my bad kind of
a philosophy of life. You
know what I mean? There's
nothing wrong with being, you
know, with my bed, having
an opinion and then get
over it, get over yourself.
Very cool. I know you
don't like that. It kind
of takes the heat out
of the argument at that
point. But, Well, the only
thing that I'm looking for
at that point is you
argued for so long, you
know? And, and, and I
want that I was wrong
to take equally long. You
argued for four hours on
a point, and then you
give me 30 seconds off.
Oops, my bad. And you
walk away and it's like,
wait a minute. You know,
for every four hours, you're
arguing, there should be six
hours. If I'm sorry, Mira
Copa Was just like, okay.
My bed is for lunch
time. So anyway, speaking of
moving on, just all I
do, that's the same way
I went my blog, you
know, I can't with this
kind of piece of code
a couple of weeks ago,
I thought it was really
awesome. I was just, you
know, it's just this thing.
It doesn't matter what it
was, but, and everyone thought
it sucked. And I was
like, Oh, well I guess
that was soundly trounced. You
know? No one thought that
was a good idea. You
don't worry about 'em being
maybe not necessarily perceived as
sort of weak and not
sticking to your guns because
there's something to be said.
There's something admirable about a
person who is of strong
conviction who really believes and
gets behind something. I mean,
if, if you believe in
the moment and then you
let it go, the second
is a disagreeing opinion. Some
stuff that you don't like,
there's some opinions that you
don't, you don't, what's the
word, not capitulate, but you
know, you don't back off
on like, you know, being
nice, opening the door for
people, you know, this is
the stuff that you teach
three year olds. You know
what I mean? It's not
like you tell the kid.
Yeah. Believe this. And then,
well, you know, if it
doesn't work out, you can
pick another thing. There's certain
basic is a different change,
value and opinions. So yeah,
I have values. I won't,
but like whether or not
a piece of software is
good or not, you know,
it may, it may be
good today and it may
be looked poorly upon in
10 years. Right. History will
decide if the pattern held
In the history will decide.
Very, very true. Okay. Just
one last quick question. Tell
me a little bit about
the book and your excitement
about it. Yeah. The book
ESPN, NBC. Weren't you excited
when I told you we
were writing another book, I
was like, yes, this is
Awesome. Right. And translation. Oh,
but my dead body, you
write another book. This is
the address that you can
find it That's right. The
boys and I will be.
And you wrote another book
anyway. Yeah. So by the
book it's done, I mean,
we're, we're going through edits
now. We're looking for grammar.
We're looking for spellcheck. We're
fixing a couple of code
bugs and little examples, and
we're making sure that as
many eyeballs see it as
possible. So, but what makes
this book so special? I
mean, you know, there's a
lot of books out My
buddies. I did it with
Phil and with Rob and
Rob was over for dinner
a little while back. And
the goo goo helped with
the first chapter, which was
pretty awesome. That doesn't really
make a compelling. I mean,
it's special though. It's special
to you though, but what
makes it special to others?
Well, it's kind of technical,
but we've got this model
view controller framework. That is,
it is fresh, clean, supported
by Microsoft. You know, we've
had model view controller frameworks
before on the.net framework, but
I don't know, this one
just is special. It's just,
it's, it's it kind of
makes programming fun again. I
mean, it's fun to program
on rails and it's fun
to program in Django, but
I have a kind of
a soft spot for visual
studio and it's fun to
program in visual studio. So
what have I got here?
100, I got 101 tests.
You know what I mean?
And I'm like, all right,
I want to write more
tests. You know, when you
really can get off on
writing a crap load of
tests and I'll go, okay,
can I hit 500 tests?
You know, just, I want
to write test for every
possible piece of functionality. That
is really exciting. And I
don't expect you to understand
why, but there's a sense
of confidence that you get
when you've got a chunk
of tests and a pretty
well factored piece of code
versus an application that you
just know is going to
kill you later. It's like,
it's a non tested application.
I kind of a standard
web forms app with no
test at all is just
a time bomb. That's going
to kill you later. So
because this really is not
my world at all. I'm
not going to be shy
about asking my questions. And
for, for your listeners that
are savvy, well, they can
sort of tune out for
the next, you know, seven
minutes or whatever. What, what
is it that these applications
is supposed to be doing?
I mean, walk me, walk
me through this. And in
layman's terms, you know, I
know that this is a
coil Layman's terms like, like
wifely terms. I mean, Oh,
come on, give me more
than that. I'm not, I'm
just saying, well, who's your,
who's your audience? Well, not
accomplished programmers, not you, your,
your, your, your level of
programming goes to Excel world.
No, I mean, this is
not, not a qualitative value
judgment. You can write some
basic Excel macros, right? Can
you get, do four loops
probably right. About the edge
of where you can? No.
I used to be able
to do six. We're going
to have to edit a
whole bunch here, but can,
That's going to be, that's
going to be tweeted now.
Most Scott's wife can do
not just four loops, but
also six loops. Oh, geez.
I'll never know that the
audience is developers, right? I
mean, visual studio for the
Microsoft person is the Microsoft
word. You know, you live
in word and Excel. We
live in visual studio and
you do your work in
there and you make stuff.
And we do our work
in video studio. This is
a framework that lets people
write websites faster and cleaner
in a different way than
the framework was before. So
I understand that, but that's,
that's one way to put
it, I mean, necessarily faster.
It's not the right way
to put it, but boy,
now the truth comes out.
It's complicated, right? We always
use the example of car
versus motorcycle. The stuff we
have before was a car.
And now someone has introduced
this concept of the motorcycle.
So some people might go,
Oh wow, this is way
better. It's faster. Okay. Well,
that's a value judgment, but
someone else might say, well,
it's faster, but it's only
got two wheels. You know,
it's less, it's going to
kill you on the curves.
It turns, can't put groceries
in it. So then you
get into this issue where
there are choices. When there
weren't choices before and with
a car, you could put
lots of groceries in it
and you can get where
you want to go, but
you can't go very fast
motorcycle. You could kill yourself,
but neither is better than
the other. They are simply
different for what you wanted
to do that day. So
here's an example of a
supported framework. Microsoft that lets
us do stuff differently than
before. We've just introduced a
new kind of car. So
people have choice. Now it
doesn't mean that there's only
cars and motorcycles. There's still
minivans and Hummers and unicycles,
but we haven't written those
yet. So it's exciting because
it's a new class of
car, new class of applicants.
Is it innovative? No, it's
not particularly innovative in the,
in that the pattern is
a 30 year old, 33
year old pattern model view
controller patterns in 1970s. Is
it creative? The way that
it fits in with.net is,
is cool, is creative, but
it builds on the, the
things that came before it,
there are, there's the Ruby
on rails, and I've got
all sorts of Ruby on
rails books behind you there
on the bookshelf is a
framework that that did model
you control her and is
one of the better thought
of ones. But model view,
controller frameworks have been around
for forever. There's dozens. If
not more, this is just
one that smells like.net and
is supported by Microsoft. And
is, Oh, it's the one
where it's excited about right
now. It's the woman wrote
the book on literally the
book. Again, I get back
to authorship. Doesn't equal authority.
We wrote a book on
it. There's at least four
or five good books by
smarter people than I that
are out at the same
time. But we wrote the
book that w we could
make five, even six bucks
an hour with all that.
The time that we put
into this book, I think
Scott is going to make
more money on Amazon than
we going to make on
this book. I'm just excited
to have worked with my
buddies on it. And I
think it's a, it's a,
it's a, it's a pretty
good book. I am happy
for you guys. I am.
I mean, I've seen the
effort too, that went into
it. Tell me, is this,
is this a world that
you would want the boys
to go into? Oh gosh.
As we wrap it up
and I've been saying, we're
wrapping it up for the
past 10 minutes, but we're
wrapping it up really? Yeah.
Is this the one I
want the boys to go
into this? This is a
good world, because no matter
what programming language you pick,
really, you can always get
a job and you can
work anywhere you want in
the world. So that's a
good thing about being a
programmer. It's a, it's a
hard skill, not hard and
difficult, but hard in a
definable and discrete and complete,
Oh, you're a programmer. I
mean, I could probably put
up that cardboard thing and
go stand on the corner
with like a will code
for food. And I challenge,
I bet you I'd get
some kind of a job
some day work within a
day. I would say with,
you know, we'll code for
food, it would happen. That
is powerful. Don't test me
now. We're going to have
to do this. We should
try it. But the part's
probably been done. So this
is the other thing that's
great about the internet. Anytime
you have an idea, like
we just did, it's on
YouTube. Someone already do it.
So that's a good aspect
of things, but you know,
you can still get laid
off, like in any job,
I picked it because I
never understood the soft skills
and by the soft skills,
I mean, marketing and sales
And that kind of stuff.
Basic people, skills, people, skills,
DQ. Is it emotional quotient?
Yeah. Yeah. That's the thing
you have in the thing.
I don't what I want
them to do this only
if they want to do
this, you know, I see
our kids, you know, running
the United nations within something
much more important than making
the software that will be
replaced in three years. And
on that hopeful, positive note,
I'm going to sign up
folks. This has been Mo
interviewing Scott Hanselman for yet
another exciting episode of Hansel
minutes. Take care. Everybody catch
you later, John.